He didn’t like in this order (this is not an exhaustive list): Theresa, rats, Anthony, John-John, Emeka, Loveth, Bisi, Bisi. There were many rational reasons upon which he could lay claim to not liking these other children, alhough there were those for whom his repulsion was instinctive. It didn’t matter, though, he didn’t like them, and he hated especially that they had to sell in the same area, or share meals and bathing water. He only went when the sun wasn’t too hot and the breeze wasn’t very pleasurable. Today, it was cool, and he thought to rest a little, but he saw John-John already jostling and pushing and running after cars, smiling sweetly. John-John was a rare sight here, and that rarity made his beauty all the more startling. He had white patches on his head, almost non-existent eyebrows and a chipped ear, but his teeth were astonishingly bright, his face clear and yellow, his smile a glorious ease. It was annoying to see them forced by their repulsion into giving him more money, because as pitiful as it was, this beauty in the midst of this squalor, it was frightening, because then what did they have, perfumed and cooled in their cars, if something they aspired to, enjoyed thoroughly, lay in penury. H disliked John-John because John-John was most likely to get adopted. It was a fear as palpable and total as anything real on the earth. It had happened before, had happened too many times with children before John-John; too dark, too skinny, these children, not even as brilliant. John-John would become John, simply, or Johnson. He hated many, many of the other children, period. He has known them a long time and he’s nearly grown now, fourteen, proud recipient of two dreams populated by heavy bosomed women. How he had relished those women, perpetually smiling, luring him with a sweet and then adoption. He hated the other children because he was acutely aware of how invisible he was amidst them, how indistinct. And he was one peculiar in his habits, drawn to order and routine, to languor, to music and to exuberance. The smoldering heat, the endless community, wasn’t him. He watched Johnson run, and felt the impulse to do so too. He picked up his basket, counting the sausage rolls despite knowing they were intact, and set off. He chased a few buses. The sun burned his neck and forehead and caused him to squint. Johnson, in his sight, smiling, taking large sums of money and not handing change – doing this so many times that when a man in a checked blue and white shirt handed him a thousand naira note, traffic easing, it occurred to him to stall, and when the man started saying O boy, to run in the opposite direction, to clutch his basket and run and run. Perhaps he had misread the man, but the man had made the bus cease movement, had come down with a friend, eyes darting, forehead creased, patient. And then they didn’t seem so patient, from behind a bus, he saw the men lay their hands on Bolaji. He liked Bolaji. Bolaji often brought puff puff from Ijesha. Later, Bolaji would tell him all that had happened, but he wouldn’t listen. His mind would cloud with indignation. But first, he felt confusion; light skinned Bolaji, more John-John than him. Was it simply laziness? Had they truly not known who they had given money to? Did they really not see
